Brat is out now!! Thank you so much for all the love and support you have all shown for this music, this campaign and for me - at my most pure, my most charli, my most brat. To all the angels… I think we all feel that something quite special is happening rn.. I love you all. This album was the product of 1000s of phonecalls, texts, emails, conversations, debates and discussions with multiple different amazing people who make up my epic longstanding team. We went back and forth on deciding which production tools to ban vs which to lean on, we tested hair texture over and over again to land on the perfect good/bad/professional/unprofessional texture, we road tested language, autotune, font, pixelation and spoke constantly about pop theory, narrative, the concept of desire and of course narrowed down around 65 shades of green to the final most ultimate most brat green.

To list every single person involved in making the bratosphere transcend is impossible because even the smallest contribution makes the most massive difference but I must specifically shout out @agcook404. Ty for exec producing brat with me, you understand me inside out and I love that we can make songs basically with our eyes closed now! Also to loml @bedforddanes75, new bestie @easyfunnn and all the other amazing collaborators involved in creating this music. Also to @imogene @terrencefoconnor and @chrishoran20 aka the supers - you are the visual trifecta and I’ve loved every second of working on this project with you…. squeezing out every element of theory, analyzing each possible outcome, playing out every conceivable scenario and then also just going “fuck it, it’s brat!” and doing whatever the fuck we want… its been exhilarating and wild and crazy and unforgettable. And finally of course to @brandoncreed @kvrowley @sampringle & @daniela.lavender even when I’m being an absolute nightmare you still stand by me and make me feel comfortable to be myself… and at the end of the day, that’s exactly what brat is all about: me, my flaws, my fuck ups, my ego all rolled into one.