

Hey Charlie, let me get a picture. This has been the total opposite of like an overnight success story. I've always been caught in this dichotomy of, am I a left field underground artist, or am I supposed to be a pop star? People are obsessed over the way that you presented this music. They say you claimed a colour. That's crazy. They say. This fan base, they're hungry for us to succeed. We just have to do it for them. That's all we need to light a fire. It was every day long! I suppose it's been very rewarding that I've really truly just been myself. Niche is rewarded so much more than it ever has been. And I think the labels, yeah, they got it. They got on board and they left me alone. And that's really all I've ever wanted to be left alone. If you think about one word that sums up Charlie XCX this year, we all know what it is. But there are so many more words that can apply. If you've been on this ride with Charlie forever, then yeah. It's hard, working, visionary, creative, ambitious, adventurous. If it's your first impression, iconic seems pretty good. And yeah, brat. But it's more than that.

In fact, yeah, let's sum them all up with one word. Charlie. Oh, no, no, no, no, no. Are we going? We found you. We've been chasing you. We've been chasing you trying to catch up to you. I don't know how we caught up to you. I don't know how you're feeling right now, but I'm really glad to see you. to. I'm glad to see you.

I'm sort of hanging on by a thread in ways, but I also think, you know, this has been the total opposite of like an overnight success story, so I think I am prepared in ways for what's happening right now in terms of like the pace of things, and also in terms of, you know, my kind of level of engagement with reality versus fantasy, and yeah, I just, it's, I think, easier for me to take a lot of things with a pinch of soul because of, you know, how long I've been doing this for.

It's funny because you talk to people who have been introduced to you this summer and they're like, who is she? And then there's a whole bunch of us who are like, at last. And it's sort of one or two, you know, it's either or. And I wonder, it kind of must feel a little bit like both for you in a way, because we've known each other a long time.

And I've always joked with people about, you know, the world's got to catch up to you. You shouldn't try to catch up to the world. And so how does that kind of validation feel now? Obviously it feels on one side of things really amazing, you know, to have made this album where I really truly made like no sacrifices at all. Like I really was preparing myself for this album to sort of be for my kind of fan base only and not really like break outside the walls of that at all for it to feel very similar to pop two in the kind of the scale of it, you know?

And so when, you know, so many new people began kind of reacting to not only the music but the sort of culture around me as an artist, I was like, oh wow, like this is so awesome because I've not really sacrificed any part of myself to appeal to more people, which is something that I always kind of felt like I had to do because I never felt sort of traditionally like, I don't know, like pretty enough or, you know, that I was kind of doing or saying the right things in like the sphere of pop music to be accepted enough on like a kind of sort of larger scale.

And so I suppose it's been very rewarding that I've really truly just been myself as cheesy as that sounds and more people are listening to my music because that's really the kind of ultimate goal for me to be able to make what I want to make but kind of lots of people to hear it. And then on the flip side, you know, it's sort of like just quite overwhelming, I guess.

As you say, it's like people don't know the history and that's fine. It's, you know, it's kind of fun for people who want to find out to find out.

But yeah, I think there's a lot of depth to all artistry and I think it's like at the level I was before, I would say sort of like 95% of people who were engaging with my work were so hungry to explore all of the kind of little Easter eggs and the depth behind everything that I was doing. And now there's, you know, more people who are engaging with things on a surface level which is totally great.

But also the artist in me is like, oh, but don't you know why I wore that color? You know, getting like very heady about it. I think. It's still kind of in a really sort of nice way, kind of envious of the people that are discovering you now because they get to go back and experience all these different sides of what you do. And all this excitement and all this amazing art for the first time.

And I thought it was really cool how you kind of reposition and repurposed your artwork to bring up to date and gave all your previous projects a through line in terms of it's fun, but it's also really smart because it says like, hey, it's not like this is completely different to anything else I've done. It's all been a journey up to this point. Yeah, I think, you know, in terms of like previous projects, it's like, I think there are things that are, you know, inherently like, uh, comparative within my, my work. And I do feel like Brat and Pop2 and how I'm feeling now kind of do live, they're sort of siblings in the, in the catalog, I suppose. And yeah, it's nice to sort of visually tie them all together as well.

And then there's some more kind of like anomaly work. It's interesting for people to discover too, but it's nice to treat it as a whole universe. We spoke in 22 on Crash, and that felt like the end of something. I remember at the end of that conversation, I said, yeah, I feel like that's the end of an era for her. That's how I felt at the end of that conversation.

Like there was a release that day, but it was also released through the music of like, I'm sick of trying to kind of compromise here and there and be in a label matrix and move according to how other people move before or after my release and timeframes and all this shit, which works a lot of the time. But it felt like you had had enough of that. Yes.

And I just, I think it'd be cool to kind of just pick up from that point and how you felt after releasing that album and to get to the point of Brat and so how important that phase was of letting go. Like I didn't even know you would sign another label deal. Like I genuinely didn't. Yeah, I was really keeping that under that. You were like, I'm done with labels, I think, for now. Yeah, and then I re-signed. And then I re-signed. True. I re-signed. I moved from the UK to the US. You know, I really, on that, I really did explore other options, but in the end, you know, having more control of my masters was essentially what I wanted. I've always been caught in this dichotomy of, am I a left field underground artist, or am I supposed to be a pop star?

And I think Crash was me kind of like toying with the idea of like, no, I'm gonna be a pop star, but also putting this protective layer of like, but it's a concept around it, just in case it failed or whatever, you know? And I think artists always figure out ways to kind of protect themselves from public discourse in their own ways, and I think that was mine during that time.

After that whole process, I really did just feel like, okay, you know what? This next one is for me. Like it's that thing of like one for them, one for me. And this next one, I was like, this is for me. I've done the like, trying to be commercial thing. I've done the, I'm playing the game. I've done the like, I'm doing radio, whatever, you know? And I was like, I'm just like not doing that anymore.

Like I'm just not, I'm not built for it in the way that other people are. It doesn't bring me joy. See, I think when we were having that conversation, you'd already come to that conclusion, not just weird about it, but because you seemed so relieved. Yeah. It was like you were just letting all of this pressure go. Yeah, yeah, maybe. in that moment and it just felt like, I don't know, I got very excited after that because I realized like whatever you do next I knew was going to be very, just driven by you and driven by your team. With hindsight, there's been so many times in my life where I've tried to do that version of a project where you're like, no, this one, it's about me, my team, no outside voices, don't care about how well it performs, et cetera, et cetera.

And I think really successfully, I only managed to do that one time, which was with Pop too, and with Vroom Vroom actually, because that sort of came off of the back of this album Sucker, which was sort of commercially at that point in time, my most successful record. And I just didn't get any enjoyment out of it at all.

I didn't feel that I would sit down and listen to some of the most successful songs from that record. I didn't particularly relate to a lot of the things that I was doing, even though I was having fun doing a lot of the things, it didn't feel like distilled version of myself.

And so then I kind of like did this big sort of pendulum swing into Vroom Vroom, and then into the two mixtapes that I made, number one, Angel and Pop too, which really did feel like that thing of like, okay, well, I'm making this for myself and for the people who really understand me the most. And if it doesn't perform, it doesn't perform. That was your first kind of. experience of sort of rejecting the established why and being like, no, no, there's another why over here. Yes, yes. And it's with Sophie and it's with AG and it's like, there's a thing over here that whether it works or not, this is my why. Yeah, and I think it was at that point in time where I was like this is equally as important and has the potential to be equally as successful in terms of scale as the other thing that I was doing, but it's just you have to kind of tell the story in a different way. You learn to market yourself and actually present it differently. That's when I felt like I really had a hardcore fan base because it was me and them. We were the people engaging in the conversations around my work and the culture around my work. And kind of that conversation was, you know, generating the small level of hype and buzz that those projects got, you know, very internet core, that kind of thing.

And I think now it's sort of the same pattern in the, you know, crash happened. And I was beyond proud of that record and, you know, the things that that record did, that was my biggest tour at the time. It was statistically my, one of my biggest records.

Like I'm not super focused on that, even in that record when I kind of was supposed to be, but it was, it was like a, you know, great album campaign.

And I, by the way, I find I like, I mean, you know this about me, but I guess for people watching who maybe don't, like I talk about music in terms of like marketing and campaigns more than I do music, I think sometimes, but it's the part I've always been really interested in, even more than the music. I've told you the story about how when someone said, who are the young people that can run the industry in the future? And I said, well, Charlie's definitely on this. I've told you this before because of that fact. Totally. And yeah, so, you know, now with going into brat, like I was very much focusing on, you know, in that same way as with Vroom Vroom and Pop 2, like this is for me, for my fan base, et cetera. But I kind of wrote this sort of like manifesto. It was really clear.

It was just like essentially saying all the things that, you know, I should have said when I was doing Vroom Vroom, but probably didn't have the confidence to say. But essentially that like this record, it's not going to, there's going to be like no, like traditional radio songs, like whatever.

There's not going to be that like traditional, like this is the single kind of a vibe because we don't live in that world now. And you, the label should recognize that. And you should recognize that this like fan base that I have built are so hungry for me and my peers and are kind of like slightly left world of like pop dance music to that they're hungry for us to succeed.

And that doesn't mean that we have to do any pandering to any other side of the industry. We just have to do it for them. And we have to make them feel so special because they are, because they've championed me and us for so long. And that's all we need to like light a fire. And I think, you know, now niche is rewarded so much more than it ever has been. And I think the labels recognize that.

And I think I spoke with such confidence and aggression, I suppose in parts that I think they, yeah, they got it, they got on board and they left me alone. And that's really all I've ever wanted to be left alone. And so then I could just do my things then, you know, and it works.

And I think what's really interesting is like out of this time where, and yeah, I feel like a little bit arrogant saying this perhaps, but out of this time where like the niche is so rewarded after like serving the niche, actually like kind of a monoculture moment happened, which we don't see a lot of in this day and age. People are obsessed over the way that you've presented this music. They say you claimed a colour. That's great. they say. Yeah. Yeah. Now I know. Yeah. It's wild. It's like that's yours now and fashion houses are now creating things out of that color and it's kind of mad. I mean, where were you when the idea of presenting it through the green with the lowercase font, the blur, the very sort of early stage digital, where did that come from? I was just at home, and, you know, actually, where... I'm not sure if I actually said this yet, but where the actual first idea of doing a text cover came from was to save money. Because I was like, this album is not going to appeal to a lot of people, so... $300,000 photo shoots ain't on the books. Yeah. Literally, that's why I was like, I think like I Will do like a press shoot and then maybe we just like save on the album cover and maybe it's like cool Seriously, though I was like, I think it's also cool because I've been on every cover of mine apart from vroom vroom So like actually it kind of punctuates the pattern in like quite a nice way but also like handy because it's gonna be you know a lower spend and then I And then everyone was like, well, that's the stupidest idea ever.

I was like, no I was gonna ask who should the bid and you just said everyone everyone everyone like Brandon my manager my creative director a machine like all my friends everyone was like no Not the text cover and I was like no guys seriously And then I started playing around and I was just making mock-ups on my phone and I was like this actually is really good and it actually feels like it very much embodies the word brat to kind of Not be there, you know Because that is sort of less of the norm.

I suppose for female artists, you know So that sort of felt punchy and you know the the kind of pixelation It sort of makes it look like it's kind of been done in this sort of rush like you didn't get the proper high-res file We did but like, you know, we it's like that's what people think and the shade of green like we we really honed in on the What that should be and kind of wanted to go for the one that the most people In our sort of like core group had the most adverse reaction to Brandon was like, this is really hard to look at I was like, this is the green and perfect because I think it's like I knew that it would generate this conversation I knew that a lot of people would be sort of frustrated or disappointed By it and I think for me, it's like I would rather have those Conversations which actually in some case became quite like explosive Then, you know a picture where people are like she looks good, you know It's like I enjoy the conversation because that's what I enjoy about Music myself.

I enjoy the conversations that I have with AG about You know, whatever it may be The artwork of all the fun of you know, some release that we're into It's it's like it's really fun to like dissect that and it was so cool that like I saw so many think pieces written by Fans, you know like essays about the cover and then later about the marketing and Because people are really, really blown away by the impact that the marketing has had here. And what you've done is reinstilled this confidence that marketing is creative. I think marketing has had its wings clipped in a lot of ways lately because the way social media works and the way people just talk and put things out is so fast. I have friends of mine who are really good at that job.

And they say it's been hard to get really high quality, great work over the line because clients just want fast, punchy shit that they know is gonna last five minutes and onto the next thing. And that's not rewarding for some of these people.

And I think what Bratt and what you've done has achieved in a lot of things is, like I said, put some confidence back into this idea that if it's sticky, you can build around it. I don't think the music industry is sort of as knowledgeable on marketing as it really like should be, to be honest. It's like, you know, the idea of like selling a sexy product, it's like, you have to create some kind of supply and demand, especially when it comes to pop. You know, the aim is to sell, right? And like sell as much as possible and go on tour and be everywhere.

And yes, there is that, but I think in a way to like get to that in an interesting way, you kind of have to sort of like starve, like the audience, like drip feed the tap to get the viewer into this like feverish state where they actually want more rather than you're just sort of like super serving them everything. Serving them this endless buffet of stuff. We want to invest in it. I think we want to invest in things rather than just be told, here it is. It's as I present it, it's done, enjoy it. It's like, cool, do I get a say in what I think of it? Yeah, I've never shopped at Supreme ever, but I kind of likened this album to like a Supreme drop kind of a thing. Like I've actually never even been in Supreme, but I see the lines outside. It's like, that's what you want. You know, you want there to be this kind of rubber band of desire of like, oh my God, I have to get it, I have to get it, I didn't get it.

Like, is there another way for me to get it? Like whether that be, you know, releasing really limited runs of things, whether it be, you know, the kind of like private Instagram, which I will say like, I totally like jacked that idea from Lana Del Rey with her honeymoon account. I was like, this is amazing. Like why aren't more people doing this?

Cause I remember I couldn't get in for ages and I was like, I want to be in there. Like it's that thing of like creating this club that, you know, feels in some way special or exclusive, but actually when you're in it, it's very open and fun. All that makes sense, and what also adds to the fun for you to be able to continue to be creative with the project, because I think a lot of times artists feel that they put something out and then they're expected to go make something else. And what's clear to me is that you've continued to enjoy breathing new life into Brat. Someone said to me, how has Charlie done it?

I said, well, OK, she's working really hard. Like, she's not taking your eye off the project. Billie's doing it as well. I think you're sending a message to young artists that if you're really proud of what you create, you should feel like you can go out there and work like any generation or any decade. I feel so much love for this project that I don't feel like I'm doing anything against my will, like everything that I'm doing relating to the music, it's because I want to do it because I love the music so much. And I also, you know, I know that I won't have this moment again in this exact same way.

I think, you know, the success of Brat and the success of the marketing of Brat is also in ways a curse. Like I'm not going to be able to market my next album in the same way. But you're PIVVY, you're always PIVVY. I'm PIVVY. But whatever I do next will be compared even if the music is completely different Yeah, the scale the way it's rolled out the level of conversation. I'm aware that whatever comes next This is kind of the Albatross Probably a good thing because you know when you're the number one news story in the world because Kamala is brat and how do you possibly read you? I mean you've got to move on from there. I mean Was that just was that just off the cuff? Did you just flick that out there like whatever? Yeah, it was a little, it was off the cuff. Yeah, it was me and my friend Terry, we work on a lot of kind of like my social stuff together. We were just texting and we were like, should we do this? We did it. And you know, I won't lie, like naively, I sort of didn't actually think it would take on quite the life that it did.

Like, did I ever expect to be kind of like dissected for things that I've said in like an interview with Nick Grimshaw on Fox News? No, I didn't see that like coming in my life. Was Nick on Fox? Fox News. Yeah, yeah, both of us were. He was asking me kind of like, so, you know, what are like the brat essentials? And I was like, oh, pack a six and a strappy top or whatever. And then it's like, you know, the political con respondents on Fox News are kind of being like, do we really need this kind of woman setting an example for the American youth?

And I was just like, oh God, like, obviously like I've never cared to set an example, but I guess now I'm on the news. montage was something to behold, you know, where all of the different news cycles were trying to, like, lean into the brat. It's fun watching them figure it out. Yeah, bless them. Yeah, well, you do have a footnote in this campaign for somebody who I think, if you ever got to meet her, would probably say thank you. Yeah, I mean that I yeah that would be cool and you know, I'm obviously she's obviously You've also got a young team around her. I mean, the moves they're making, they start it. They picked up and ran with it and that was cool. There was a young gay man on that campaign, I think, who said, let's go. Your breath. Yes, and that's cool and, you know, obviously happy to be on the right side of history. This remix project, I don't even know if I should call it that, completely different but still brat. Yes. It's one of the most beautiful, honest, flawless dance records I've ever heard. Thank you. Thank you. It is so, first of all, it is a club record. I don't want anyone to get this twisted. I mean, it is a modern, brilliant club record. And I know that you are genre agnostic, but do you agree that you're making, that you've made a club record? Yes, I mean, I agree that the original album and the remix album, again, I don't really know if it's called that. It's a new album. It's a new album, isn't it? Yes, I agree that they are, they're dance records, they're both very much rooted within club culture. Hence, you know, the boiler room and, yeah, I mean, that's where I came from. We came from the warehouse scene, in the beginning, the rave. Yes, yes, it's kind of paying homage to that and the different sort of textures of those spaces and working with Gasafelstein or AG or George or whoever it may be, it really does to me feel like a dance record.

And it was fun on the remix album to bring all of these people in, some of whom aren't particularly connected to the club world when you would think about it on the surface, but actually Julian Casablancas, for example. Bon Iver. Yeah. I mean, if you go through Bon Iver's deep cuts, or you really go through his collection as Justin Verner, not just as Bon Iver, he's constantly moving in electronic space. Yeah, yeah. And you know, when I think about Julian, it's like, okay, like, has this sort of like history with Daft Punk. And also... And the structure of Daft Punk. The strokes, yeah. I mean, exactly. It's like you talk about like New York downtown. It's like people were like partying then, you know, and really in like a hardcore way.

And so I think he, of all people, like understands like how to capture that kind of an energy in a room and on the songs. It was definitely crazy, pulling that all together. Collaborators are insane. I mean, I think it might be up there with the most impressive collaboration project on paper. Thanks. Ever. Yeah. It's nuts. I mean, you've got uncredited Dua Lipa on this. I know. Yeah. No, I actually pitched it to her because I was like, we can do it as a feature, but like, maybe it's, I was like, if we're going to do it as a feature, it should be more. But like, I'm kind of into like, I'm into the fact that she's just like, fuck it. I'm like learning two languages and I'm going to be fluent in both of them within like three years or whatever it is.

And I'm like, that's so cool. Like, come and do that on this song, which is already about, you know, communication, talking in French and Spanish. I was like, well, this is you were born to do this. Come on. Let's go. The beautiful contrast of what makes Brat really special, and don't get me wrong, I love seeing it everywhere and I love seeing the impact it's had visually and aesthetically and culturally, but it wouldn't have connected if the music didn't matter.

And what you did was you created this world, and we all know this, so sorry if I'm stating the obvious, you took this place of where parties happen and where people let go and release and just have a great time. And then you also told the truth. You were like, yeah, but I'm really sad. Or I feel weird feelings of guilt because I miss my friend. Or I'm unsure about how I look today.

And you really went in. And before you move on to the remix album, because I want to bring it up today and a lot of people have written and talked about Brat, but what was that experience like kind of existing in these two worlds where one is party girl and the other one is Charlie for all of your fears and doubts that we all went through as humans? They both coexist, truly, you know, I think... Matty was actually asking me this, like, when we came back from Ibiza, he was like, are you actually partying, like, as much as it looks like you are? Or is it all a bit of a, like... And I was like, no, like, we are. And I was like, I'm really tired. Like, I'm really, really tired.

And it also fuels, you know, the other side of the kind of, like, you know, now I'm sad kind of a thing. It really is that. I'm actually happy that both sides of me have been so well documented because now I do really have an excuse for any kind of, like, bad behaviour or being sad. It's like it really is written in the history books. So you just enabled yourself to either lose your mind or try to claim it back. Yeah, yeah, I suppose so. But no, I mean, I don't know, I think it's like we all have those two sides of us. I think no one is eternally happy, otherwise happiness wouldn't exist as an emotion. many artists are as honest about it as you were on this record and I know you have been throughout your career but this is really up front and on the remix album in particular because it's like you realize that there was more that could be said but let's begin with so I because the first time I heard that song on brat I was so moved you so beautifully and eloquently captured what it feels like to lose somebody and wonder what I what I missed Yeah. And then on this new version, it's like now I want to celebrate the good times. And how was it getting to a point with Agee Cook, who obviously the two of you work closely with and love Sophie, like many people, to be able to come to some form of therapeutic kind of realization? You know what I mean? Like a celebration. Well, you know, it's funny, and I hope Alex wouldn't mind me sort of like blowing up his spot like this, but we actually worked on both of those songs separately.

So when I was working on the original, I actually started that with Easy Fun, who was also like kind of PC music affiliated, a good friend of Sophie's, and also this other producer, John Shave, who we had also worked with Sophie a lot together. And so Alex kind of came in a little later on that one, and Finn, Easy Fun, and I, we were very back and forth on the lyrical content of that initial song.

And then on So I, the remix album version, AG had played that edit at the Boiler Room that we did in February, and I was like, I love that. Like, I want to like do something on that. And so that's kind of how, you know, like really, I think I recorded it in July, August, maybe. Is that the start of the idea of actually doing a remix album? No, from before I made Brat, I knew, I was like, we're going to do a remix album because we're going to make so many edits that it's going to just, we're going to want to do it because there'll be so much music and it would be really cool to have like a kind of channel to like really like put it all out there. You can reflect on the original album, you can further reflect on some of those sentiments and feelings that you've established. Exactly, and also I think, you know, I love the endless possibilities of music and particularly dance music. I think it's so inherent to the genre. You know, you send out your acapellas, like people DJ, then people like mix them with other songs, like new versions, get born. And you know, especially now with TikTok, like something goes viral that just was randomly played in the club.

And like, I really wanted to capture that energy on the record because I think the music works so well for it. So yeah, it was always the plan, but sorry, so was So I, the remix album version. Yeah, AG and I, it's like, we don't like to get super deep with lyrics. You know, he's very much like, you do you, I'll do me. And that's what I love.

Obviously that sounds like a very disconnected approach, but I think the only way that we are able to do that is because we trust each other so much and we know each other's strengths and weaknesses so much that it's so easy for us to just flow back and forth between each other. And you know, it's like, I won't lie.

I think it's obviously to kind of like sit down and intricately talk about like each, you know, line for line of either of those two songs. It's very like emotional experience. It's emotional, isn't it? Yeah, so I think for both of us, it's like, we like to kind of just work on our, you know, in our like separate bubbles, especially with that song, at least from my perspective.

And then we kind of can just like look at each other and know how we feel. And yeah, I'm really proud of that song and all of the memories are, you know, real, real memories. Mahalan driving the birthday cake. Yeah, yeah. Oh, and my Guinness. It's true, I just shot the video for After the After Party, which was like a two-day nighttime shoot, and it was Sophie's birthday, like the day, the morning that we'd finished. So they'd been partying and it was like 6 a.m. or maybe a bit later 8 a.m. And Agee and I went to Gelsons, we got this disgusting birthday cake. With the plastic cover of the PA. The horrid, awful.

It was actually like a shape of a burger. And then we drove in an Uber. Then this Uber driver was insane. And I mean, we really thought that it was, we were gonna go off the edge. And then, yeah, it was just a very like, we were so delirious from being awake for two days. And then we kind of like get to this party where people have been partying all night. And we've got this like Grace birthday cake. It's really cool, it's beautifully painted, you've really captured it, and it's emotional to hear you tell these stories. And the fact that you do it so fast makes you really lean in and want to listen more carefully, because you're going so quick, I'm like, I really want to hear every one of these stories. I've listened five times.

And like the DJ sat with Twiggy and how nervous she was and how sweet she was. She was so nervous. Sophie was. And it's rare when somebody's willing to pull back the curtains on these experiences and feel okay to share them, even in tribute. Well, you know, I kind of learned that, actually, from watching the 1975 on tour, like, obviously being with George, I'm, like, going to their shows a lot. And I just remember this line, selling petrol or whatever. And that moment in the crowd, like, goes off. No one knows who the fuck Danny is, but, you know, it's one of their, like, old, like, childhood friends. But I always...

That moment in the show always really fascinated me because I'm like, oh, it's like the crowd, the audience really responds to these super specific personal references because it kind of is like a window into, you know, the artist's life.

I feel like all, like, you know, the sad boys, like, Young Lean, Blade, they do that a lot, like, these super, like, interpersonal references about, you know, their friends, their lives. It's something to do with isolation, I think, as well. Although that comes from sort of being removed, either internally or externally, geographically removed from things that, you know, you feel the need to, there's a, I always say this about Australian music, like especially rock and roll from the 90s and 2000s, it really, it built romance around the banality of suburban life. Right.

And I wanted to know about, I really want to go to the corner store where you got that pint of milk. Yeah, yes. In the middle of nowhere. Yeah, totally, exactly. It welcomes you in.

And then on the flip side of that, you've got, you know, might say something stupid, the remix, right, with Maddie, which is, I don't think anyone listening to this is, who knows the 90s 75, loves the 90s 75, recognises the rollercoaster Maddie's been on, in particular on that last tour through that cycle, is going to ignore the pertinence of him being on that particular song at this moment in time.

Can you tell us a little bit about that decision, how that was to work with him? Because there's some really moving lines in there, some really sort of quite eye-opening lines in there from him. Yeah, and I really wanted him to do the song. He's like my brother now, you know, it's like, and I hope he wouldn't mind me saying this, but it's like, I have like endless amount of respect for him as a songwriter and him as a person, but I sometimes wanna strangle him, you know?

And, you know, even before being with George, you know, like years and years ago, I've always been such a fan of their work. He's thinking like of the way everything is digested in terms of, you know, their work, their artwork, their font, their videos, their everything. It's very, very holistic. I think it was hard to say on his behalf, but did he recognise the opportunity to go on there and just be honest from his perspective? We haven't heard from him for a while. I mean, I can't speak on his behalf at all, but I mean, all I'll say from my perspective in terms of that show is like, I just really enjoy people who, you know, take a risk in terms of what they're like, putting out there artistically. And I think, you know, that show is a little divisive, but I think great art is divisive. Let's talk a little bit about Sympathy as a Knife. That was a standout on the first version of Brat. Got a lot of people talking for lots of different reasons, and everyone's got this, that, and whatever.

But what's cool about Sympathy as a Knife is that putting Ari on it, somebody who, even with the best of intentions as an artist, still finds herself in a thrash over her personal life, over how she looks, over her behavior. I mean, she's been on a roller coaster as well.

So again, it's like these remixes, these new versions give people a chance to actually acknowledge these things with the honesty that you've found the courage to present on the first album. It's like, I want a piece of that. I want to say my truth too. And I think what's interesting about the remix album, you kind of mentioned this, is, you know, I was writing the original record when I was in like a very different position than I am, you know, post the release of Brat working on the remix album. So my perspective has changed a lot. Are you referring to, like, now you're in the glare? You're in the- Yes! Yeah, more so. And definitely, you know, comparative to some other artists, like not at all, you know, but like, for me personally, from where I was to now, I'm definitely finding more than ever that my words are being picked apart, taken out of context, like I offend a lot more people by doing exactly the same things, sort of nothing like groundbreaking here.

But I suppose because, you know, no one really cared too much before what I was doing on like a personal like day to day level.

There was, I was a bit shocked, you know, and it kind of, yeah, it gave me so much empathy for, you know, bigger artists who go through that on a daily basis, and have been for years, you know, it's hard, it's hard to be constantly scrutinized for things that you have said, it's hard for your words to be taken out of context, and then really kind of feel that you just can't defend yourself, because that would open a whole other can of worms, you know.

And so, Sympathy as a Knife, the remix version, it was kind of about me recognizing that, and me understanding that, you know, you're only really knowledgeable about your own position.

And once mine had changed, and I had felt that I'd gone through, you know, a few interviews throughout this campaign, where I'd felt perhaps that I was being a little bit manipulated, or there were kind of other agendas at play, and I'd never felt that before.

I had heard that Ari wanted to do something, and I was like, this is somebody who definitely knows this feeling, you know, more so than me, you know.

And so when she wanted to kind of take this phrase, like, it's a knife, like, obviously we're so, you know, lucky, and, you know, blessed to be in the situation that we're in, all artists who are able to make music at the level that they're making it, you know, financially support themselves from creating art, it's like, we are, we're lucky, because, like, not all artists get that.

You could be an amazing, amazing musician, no one's ever heard of music. That's fair. But I just want to say humility is an important part of everyday life, but I've always struggled with the idea that artists should wield it just because you worked really hard and you get to do what you dreamed of doing. For sure, for sure. I'm just saying like, there is that. I mean, listen to this. I'm complaining like on about six songs on the remix album. I'm like, oh, this is annoying. This is annoying. They're really genuine, honest, they're good, it's a good winch, it's a good winch. No, I mean, it's like, hey, should I start a family or should I keep going because things are working? No, totally. Hey, it's like, you're telling me that, you know, I'm better off being the old me or the new me. Like, which one is, like, who's me? I'm not saying, like, sit down and shut up and get on with it. Like, obviously, that's never really been my, like, M.I.O. I just wanted to say, like, we... I think we all recognize... And that's part of the guilt. That's part of the guilt complex, you know?

We all recognize that it's great that we're in this position, getting to do the things that we're doing, like, getting to, like, sit in this room, like, at this hotel, la, la, la, la, la. We get it. Like, we're... aware that that is, you know, not the norm, you know? But on the flip side, I think this life comes with things that are sort of unimaginable until you're in it, you know?

And it's hard to deal with. Yeah, the most sensitive souls often are the ones who choose to create art and express themselves through that medium, create the magic, share it, make our lives better. It ultimately leads to some success. Success leads to a lot of attention. Attention is not great for sensitive people. There we go. So it's like... Yeah. Again, I can only speak for myself, but I'm volatile. I'm volatile and you can see it in my work. I'm not always going to say the right thing, but I doubt every single person watching this has not ever fucked up once in their life. Everyone fucks up. Everyone says dumb shit. Everyone does dumb shit. Everybody hurts people. Maybe you don't realize it, but that's life.

That's human. And even the people that I'm talking about on the remixed version of Sympathy as a Knife, whether it be the friends who make me feel like I'm being, I don't know, pressed down because of their opinions or the journalists who I feel have duped me or whatever, everyone... They probably feel that way about somebody else. It's all this vicious cycle. But if you can be honest about that, then, but you're being equally, if not more honest about yourself, but you don't stop. And you've got Master's Square Garden tonight, and I know you've got to get ready for that. And I know you've got, is the Lord coming tonight, I think as well? She is. By the way, the two of you, dealing with the awkwardness. Yeah, no, it's pretty crazy. On record, it's pretty amazing. It's pretty crazy. It's pretty amazing and I love the whole album but I think that's really cool and it must have been really nice for her to react the way she did to that. Yeah, because I was ready for her to never speak to me again. Because that could have been an outcome. Because you called it the day before. the river came out, so too late. Yes, well, New Zealand gets it first. And I guess she's still on like New Zealand at. Did you realise that? Oh my God, so you were like, oh my God, I've got to make this call now. Yes, but I was like, I've got to tell you about this song. And she was like, yeah, I've heard it. I was like, how have you heard it? It's like, I was already out. But because she's got like the New Zealand at.

Did she know it was about her? Did she pick up on it? She was like, I can guess which one it is. And so I was like, you know, but she was so cool. And I was like, you know, we sent these voice notes back and forth and. It's just so rare to acknowledge it. Yeah, yeah.

Well, so I sort of had always wondered whether she would possibly want to kind of do a response on the remix, because this was like, as I said, I'd always wanted to do this remix album, but she actually suggested it first. She was like, wouldn't it be cool if I did this response? And I was like, oh my God, I can't believe this happening. Yes. And it was so quick.

I mean, she said that on, I think the Friday and she sent me the thing. She was brilliant. because she felt it, right? Yeah. She related from her perspective. Yeah. I think about it all the time. Yes! This is a really, it's moving in its original form. It's even more moving in the remix form. It says a lot about this kind of, the weight of expectations, self-perpetuating expectation of ambition and success and validation. And then coming up to this point of like, I'm scared I'm gonna run out of time. Which some people might see as like life or career or whatever.

It could be about also running out of time in terms of like having another life. Yeah. Right, and actually building something. How did it feel to write that, acknowledge it, the courage to release it, knowing that it really, it tells a very honest true story between about those two parallel things that are constantly vying for your attention. Absolutely. You know, I wasn't super worried about the response because I played it to a couple of my friends who, you know, sort of similar age, maybe a little older than me in long-term relationships, haven't even thought about like kids or, you know, very like careerists and they were like, yeah, I like totally get this, like, and found it very emotional. And I was like, oh, that's cool.

The thing I was actually more worried about with that song is, like, you and I kind of know, like, the musical reference of that song. And I was kind of like, I don't know if... He's gonna. No, not if he, I've met, he's cool, he's cool and I actually really wanted Mike to do something for the remix record, it didn't quite happen, but I was actually more just like, are people going to get this? Like, are my fans going to get what this reference is? Like, are they Streets fans or either people really get it or people were like, why is she singing like this?

Why is she doing this kind of cadence? Like, this song is crazy, like, you know, so that was actually the thing I was most sort of worried about. And then also that thing of like, you know, never wanting to veer into like a cosplay or like a, you know, do you know what I mean? Yeah, yeah, yeah. To going too hard in that way. So it was, it was finding the balance of that, that I was No, it's beautifully subtle. I mean, it's definitely, you feel the same sense of feeling you get when Mike's going to present his honest thoughts over music. It's, he has an amazing ability to cut to the heart of the matter and so do you. And that's very evident on Brad. There was a big reference, actually, for this record, just in terms of his whole tone. I mean, there's a few references in Club Classics. I say, like, tight light mic kind of flow. Yeah, I want to be blinded by the lights. And we kept playing this cult classic, not bestseller. He did something so truly unique and something that only he could really do. And that's what the essence of Brat is.

It's like tapping into that part of yourself that only you can access. It's kind of ignoring all the things that sort of make you palatable or easily comparable to others that may allow you to fit into any kind of premeditated mold. And actually, it's about embracing the flaws of yourself, your work, the things that you think about, and kind of running with them.

And I feel that he's always sort of done that. I mean, he's always sort of talked about, to be honest. I'm really just really realizing this now, as I say it. But here's the partying versus the morning after. That's been such a huge lyrical touch point for him. Are you aware of where the line is? Like, you're having the best time of your life in terms of finally achieving the level of success and validation that everyone hoped that you would, fans, we all hoped you would achieve. That the world would know who you are and recognize the brilliance and the genius of what it is that you do. That's happening in real time.

And you're gonna share it with your friends. You're out with Troy having the time of your life, you know? Yeah. And I know you'll pivot somewhere else altogether next time, probably. Be a folk record or some fucking... Yeah. Well, maybe. Yeah, maybe. I guess I would go in with John Hopkins and make a red end. I know, yeah. Which would be awesome. about all of those options. Yeah, I think it's probably like no music for a while. Like, you know, like quite a while. And I also just like, I wanna act now. So I'm more, I'm there. I'm already there. I'm like thinking about that stuff a little bit more. Because I always think it's like, what would it be like the coolest thing?

You know, it's like when we got Chloe Sevigny in the 360 video, I like really like never in a million years thought that she would say yes, because she's like the coolest woman in the world, you know? And so now I'm just kind of like, okay, like, if Chloe was a musician and she was making like brat, like what would she do?

Like, I don't think she, I mean, I could be wrong, but I feel like she wouldn't be like, I'm making another record, bitch. Yeah, yeah. Feel like she'd go and like. something different. else. So I'm like, that's cool. What would Chloe do? You know, every girl asks that question, trust me. Addison's asking it. I'm asking it. Like, she's just, she's the best. It's been really great to see you in this brief window of time, in the middle of all of this thrash. This will live forever. So it's awesome that you gave us so much honesty and thought and just reflected on this time. Thank you. And thanks for wanting to do this with me. I always watch these. Yeah, I know. I always watch this and I've always wanted to do one, so thank you. Thank you. It's been really awesome and whatever comes next, I can't wait to talk to you again and see you again and just watch it all unfold. It's what an adventure. Thanks, yeah. Thank you. 
