

Hello the British Library, which is quite a weird intro for this kind of things. Welcome to AVA London. I am Cheryl Ravens. This is the Resident Advisor Exchange. We have with us today singer, songwriter, visionary pop artist with an Ivan Novello award to prove it. She's got many years in the business. She has collaborated with all kinds of names that you know and love. Sophie, Agee Cook, Caroline Polacek, Christine and the Queens, Troy Savann, Lizzo, Dylan Brady, Sky Ferrer. The list goes on. She has also I think shown herself to be one of the most unpredictable and boundary pushing pop artists of her generation. I think that's fair. Do we agree? She is about to release her sixth studio album, Brat, and she is here today. Please lose your minds for Charli XCX. Hello. Thank you. Okay, so as is traditional with RA Exchange, this is a chance to look back on an artist's catalogue, whole career. We don't have anywhere near long enough for Charli's catalogue, which is actually kind of vast at this point. Yeah. And I talk so much. I'm really sorry. So just shut me up. I might rudely cut Charli off, but she's in advance said that that's fine. And I'm a bit hungover, so I like talk even more. But I'm taking it really seriously. Okay, sorry. So, okay. So before we go back in time, we should talk just a little bit about Brat. The artwork is amazing. I'm sure we've seen it. We've heard some snippets of a single, which is called Von Dutch. And you've just hosted a boiler room. Where Julia Fox made an appearance. So like I'm getting the vibes of this I'm kind of receiving the vibes Particularly the Von Dutch vibe is taking me to a place that I haven't thought about for a little while. Mm-hmm Why don't you just kind of give us the sort of elevator pitch for brat? Where are you artistically? Yeah, sure I mean, it's a club record. Um, I you know I sort of started in the clubs and it's kind of where my heart is I suppose and all of my you know Favorite collaborators are kind of adjacent to that space also and so it felt very natural for me to be there and kind of really make the records that I Want to dance to with the people I want to dance with And yeah, I suppose it's Lyrically a very different record for me. It's very like kind of confrontational and aggressive and the lyrics are sort of like Texts that I would send to my friends. I see it as being quite brutalist in ways, it's very minimal in that like the production has a lot of space to breathe, each element can be heard in the way that you know like I feel like some people are like how can electronic music be minimal but then I think about Sophie and how she would use like five incredible sounds and you'd hear nothing else or like peaches fuck the pain away it's like that world um and yeah it's yeah it's kind of like project x if that was an album is how I would describe it whoo yeah okay so mood board includes peaches that's interesting I mean I'm not I'm never I never really mood board music actually I kind of I treat like the record as a world that I really build through persona um and that's always so much more interesting to me than the music yikes but like I just I'm I'm I find artists who are kind of fully rounded and presenting like every single thing that they do as part of the world the world whether it be the font the tweets the photography the music the show like that builds everything for me so the world is kind of inspired by yeah um kind of dancing at a rave being really sweaty with like your nipples showing through your tank top more than it is by like a artist a music artist if that makes sense okay I can see where Julia Fox comes in as a kind of news for this totally yeah what's she like oh like the coolest like the real the realist like the most down like she wanted to rave all night at boiler room she was like up there with I don't even know who like the fans getting like covered in poppers like it was yeah it was cool she's very in it and so Addison, Addison Rae was there also and she's also very in it you know they both have great taste they they get they get the vibes the girls get the vibes you know okay we're gonna go backwards through time sure um yeah so i was thinking about von dutch and sort of uh these vintage fashions that are back now um feel like i mean you've you've actually lived through a retro cycle now you know crazy sometimes i hear like i love it on history and i'm like oh my god i'm not really listening to kiss that much but like it happens and i'm like oh yeah that's cool um your first mixtape but like your really first mixtape when you were 14 15 heartbreaks and earthquakes that one oh my god the album 14 hell yeah it's just there's a track on there called Neon fashion is close to it. Oh, no, don't! That's such a, oh, it makes me wanna die! I didn't know we were going like there, like that far back. Well, I was new rave, you know? And I wanted to be in it like so bad, but I lived in Hertfordshire and I was like a loser, you know, and like London was like popping off and I was on my face like looking at, you know. I feel you. Like Newcomall and all of those clubs being like, oh my God, that's so cool. They've got like teapots around their neck. Like I wanna be like that. You know what I mean? And so I was like living the fantasy on my face basically, but yeah, neon fashion glowsticks, oh hell, probably came from there. It's actually, it's, I think I did listen to it earlier. No! It's kind of, like you're 14. I know, and I'm doing a real accent. Because I was obsessed with Lily Allen, so I'm doing, and you know when you're younger, you just wanna like emulate what you think is cool. It's nothing like deeper or darker than that. You just, you're just young. I wasn't like as cool as like Billie Eilish was when she was 14. Kids are cooler now. They're so cool. Like I was doing crazy, embarrassing things. And yeah, I think I was like trying to like emulate like lots of things that I love and collage everything together into my own world, but I wasn't quite getting it right at that point, but we could move on maybe to the next question. So, just to say that in that period, you were playing like warehouse raves when you were quite young. Yes. Were you sort of chaperoned? Was that? Yeah, it was really lame. My parents, like God bless them, they were so sweet. They would drive me to the raves in like Hackney, like actual. Who else was playing? Was it like a new rave rave? Yeah, it was totally like a new rave rave, yeah. Some of the people, there was this band. I'm so scared to say this. through. There was like this actually really cool band called Le Couture Jean which is the yellow knife in French and they kind of had this song it was like my mom told me not to wear my knee pads, knee pads, knee pads, knee pads, knee pads, knee pads and they would like crawl around the ground like covered in like glitter and then there was this band called the Coolness, the Coolness, fronted by this man called Chaz Cool. He was super cool though, it was cool yeah. People should think carefully before they start up like Instagram accounts celebrating this era. I know, I know, but yeah so my parents would drive me and they would like wait at the back and it was very sweet yeah. So I kind of feel like you've come in immediately as a performer but did you also have like a raver journey like a rave epiphany as a I enjoyed those younger, those raves when I was young, but because I was with my parents, I wouldn't say I was exactly having my rebellion, you know? Even though they were very sweet with learning me state or 6 a.m. and stuff, I was also with my parents, you know? So I think my actual experience of partying and rave culture probably began when I moved to London and when I was sort of in art school and had like an older boyfriend who was like a loser and we would like go out raving, you know? Sorry to him. But I mean, he was, like he was a loser. So yeah, that was when I think we, I actually like experienced nightlife and I began to understand what music I connected with and I began to understand that I, no offense, but I just didn't love seeing bands. Shout out to my fiance who's in a band. Love them. No, I do actually really like them, but is this going well? I don't really know. I think it's going quite well. Okay, cool. We're getting a lot of laughs, which is cool. Seems good. But then I realized I actually like what makes me really feel is when I see a DJ or when I see an electronic performer or even when I see kind of a DJ who is really doing more than just playing the songs but being really creative with song choice and mixing or not mixing. Like, you know, that's when I began to really feel like, wow, I feel alive in this space and I don't need kind of to watch something. I need to just feel what's happening, you know? Was there anyone in particular from that era that was stand out? or any clubs that you frequented? God, I don't know. I mean, when I was in art school, I went to Slade. And it was strange. I didn't know AG Cook, but we had a lot of mutual friends. And he knew of me. I, at that point, didn't know of him. I knew of Hannah Diamond, who was eventually, when the label started, one of the first things that they released. This was kind of pre-PC. I think maybe I saw him play at a couple of parties. So I didn't really know. I wasn't like, oh, there's AG Cook. I don't think he was AG Cook yet. But I remember there were a few art kid parties, where I was like, oh, yeah, it's really cool. With your teapot around your neck. Absolutely, yeah. There's actually a tweet that went around the other day, where I was like, oh, yeah, that's cool. Isabella Love's story was saying, like, look at me, this is me in, like, 2007 or something, and she's behind some people, and she's got, like, I don't know, it was, like, like, Pete Capon in an abacus, an abacus. Yeah, I've seen it, I actually saw that. And the team's like, girl, why have you got an abacus around you next? She's like, bitch, to count the BPM. Yeah, I saw it. It's really good. It's really good. So, look, you signed a deal as a teenager, I guess. Yeah. And you're immediately working with kind of massive producers, Patrick Berger, like, massive hit maker, produced Dancing On My Own, which I didn't actually realise that till today. And your first single does really well, best in your music, kind of a pretty fast acceleration. And I guess I'm just curious about, like, was it what you expected it to be? No, because it didn't really do that well, like, critically. Critically, stunning. Like, in terms of, like, that thing where they're like, oh, my God, and then you released the song and did your life change overnight? No, like, not at all. And I suppose it was very interesting because, you know, I signed my deal just before I turned 16. And then I really didn't want to drop out of school. I wanted to stay in school. And I also kind of wanted to try the art school thing. I actually didn't love it. And I ended up leaving after a year. But throughout that time, I kind of was exploring who I was as an artist. But I didn't actually know that I was doing that at that time. I can say that with hindsight. I think at the time, I was just super confused because I wasn't very knowledgeable about the process of making an album. I wasn't very knowledgeable about the industry. I wasn't really very knowledgeable about anything. I don't even understand the concept of this person produced this or this person co-wrote this, I like that, I want to work with them. I was not thinking about anything. My concept of pop music, I suppose, was Britney Spears, who I love, but I also wasn't really making music like Britney Spears. And I also was in this place where I was working with these people and I didn't know how to conduct a room. I didn't know how to say, no, I don't love that, I want to move the song into this direction or that direction. I was just kind of floating, actually. And I think my label were, I mean, obviously, I think they always hoped, I think they were hoping that I was going to be this pop girl that could be like, she wears that, she does that, she does that. And that's no bad thing, I love that, but I think I just... didn't really know, and so then I met Ariel Wreckscheid who I made a lot of my first record with and the first song that I released was this song called Stay Away which was very kind of like 80s inspired sort of like like Martika to pow kind of a world and yeah like people like a hundred people like loved it and like Pitchfork were kind of gagged actually no they weren't they were like no we're not gonna do it the fader did it I remember and I was like kind of cool but I was like damn I guess I'm not that cool I'm kind of like you know whatever sorry oh rip though hey rip but yeah so yeah it was and then I kind of just didn't understand how to grow things like I was really doing everything for the first time so I was learning as I went but I also didn't really know that I was learning I was just kind of there like figuring it out and also figuring out who I am I'm talking so much do the next one sorry next question um I was gonna just just very quickly give a sense of because there are two whole albums um you've got a kind of I guess a sort of if you like pure pop awkward phrase uh direction two romance you go in this kind of almost punky scuzzy like direction on sucker then um the vroom vroom ep with Sophie which is where I come in as a fan definitely sure um I guess I'm I just want to first time and what why did you want to do that because it's so oh I remember it like perfectly so I used to uh every summer me and my friend Noony Bao who is a Swedish songwriter who I met through Patrick Berger um we would go to Stockholm and we'd go to Stockholm and we'd go to we would do this like writing camp where we would kind of, the aim would be like, we're gonna write all these songs, we're gonna pitch them to publishers and artists, but actually all we did was just like drink wine and like write songs for me and like I used half of them and half of them just, we never visited them again. And we'd done it a couple of times and we always had kind of the same people come, but then this year we were like, maybe we'll just, we'll have like a new, a few new people. So we invited Young Good, who was in the sad boys kind of mix. And then I, on a whim, reached out to Sophie's publisher and was kind of like, I'm a fan because a different loser boyfriend had put me onto Sophie on SoundCloud and was like, you have to hit, actually, you know what, he wasn't a loser. He's actually cool. He was pretty cool. He was cool, he was cool. He put me on to, Sophie, on to like this kind of early soundcloud of, I think, Bip or, yeah, I think it was Bip or Lemonade. I can't remember which one. And I was like, wow, this reminds me of me being like 14 on MySpace trying to digest this bratty Lily Allen vocal with this kind of like offiness with this justice, electronic thing, but also sounds completely different and fresh and new and nothing like that French like 2007 thing, you know. And so I reached out and Sophie responded via publisher and was like, yeah, I'd love to come. And that was it. And I was like, okay, so she's not coming then because that felt vague. And then one night she just arrived like at the kind of door she like knocked. She had like a little suitcase with her mono machine in a candle and a rose. Oh, so cute. And then she like just set up in this room downstairs. And I pretty much stayed in that room for the entire week that we were there. And she didn't come with tracks. Sophie never really comes with tracks. Like she always is it's just you're just like building there in the moment with her. And she's like, she kind of makes tracks in the moment, but they evolve into different tracks. And then maybe she'll go back. Maybe she gets bored of things, you know. So you're kind of working in this like space where you're sort of making maybe the five tracks at once, kind of. And we actually did that whole EP there. We like built the whole thing and vroom vroom was actually the first thing we ever made together, which is kind of crazy. And it was just like magic. And it was happening. And a couple of people in the room were like, what is this? like people didn't people knew it was something but I think there was a lot of trying to like formulate it into a more palatable song which both Sophie and I were very anti and Sophie was really instrumental in encouraging me to just go with my gut you know so I'll always be grateful for that but yeah and the reaction to it was kind of mixed people did exactly I would say pitchfork 4.1 not that I'm remembering but then they re-reviewed they re-reviewed guys again I totally like don't care about pitchfork by the way just so you know I think that I mean I would obviously from my perspective I would defend that critic for having the opinion because the point is you've made something that's made them like puke like no and you know what actually thank god for that critic like because where are they now everything's like it's so good like it's actually laura's name so she's the yeah she's legend legend like i i think like i think we need that level of journalism for there to be like a optimum level of cool you know otherwise we're all just sort of like playing in this like average field anyway different different conversation yeah yeah but uh yeah panned yeah but but not universally clearly it also had a hardcore with a fan base yeah yeah but but it but it was small to begin with actually it i think now you know that's that song has grown and grown and grown and and now i think people really you know think that that song has always been loved but it's sort of grown like with the internet as as like different kind of like memes have happened and different moments like new people find it tiktok gave it a new life like it's it's very yeah it's growing and growing and reaching different people but it started really small um so i'm happy that people connect to it right so the next few years after that um so from what i can gather thank god for the charlie wiki fandom wiki it's just got all the tracks on it so there's like this period of like really intense creativity but sort of thwarted releases so you had a third studio album lined up it leaks it gets shelved a lot of the songs on it well some of the songs have kind of bubbled up later on it's like being a prince fan you know it's like it's like there's a crystal ball and it gets shelved but then it like pops up right yeah yeah but truly i mean i think um like in this time so so this is where ag cook comes in as well right and you well tell me a bit about his influence on that period and because it seems to me that it triggers some different type of creative burst but perhaps it didn't perhaps you're doing that it yes totally and again And it's a hindsight thing, I think, because in the moment, we were just doing it. So I met A.G. Sophie. Whenever she wanted great chords, she would be like, well, we've got to get A.G. A.G. is called God. A.G. was always the guy with the chords. Sophie brought A.G. into the song Paradise on the Vroom Vroom mixtape. And so that's where I kind of began to be familiar with his work. And we didn't actually meet until I threw a little house party in LA, and Sophie came and brought Alex. And the first session we did together, I was like, so hungover. I was so hungover. And I really wanted to cancel, but I was like, no, I've got to go. And we made this song that actually never, well, it's one of those, like, Is it leaked? Is it not? I don't even know at this point, but it's kind of out there sort of, but it's a fan favorite, but that's never going to see the light of day, which is kind of cool that we made that on that first day. Which one is it? It's called Round and Round. I think Sophie's actually involved in that one as well. But what was the question? What was your influence on each other, I guess? Yeah, okay. So real quick, I will be quick, I promise, I'll be so quick. So the leaked album, right, that was obviously devastating. It always is to artists. I don't really want to go into it because I just can't add fuel to that fire. But that was Sophie, mainly myself and Sophie, Stargate, because their drums are kind of crazy, actually, like that Neo 2000s drum thing they do. It's kind of wild, and I was really excited for them and Sophie to be working. And Blood Pop, we made this record together. It got leaked. I was like, well, I'm not putting it out. Because it was a different time than now where it's kind of just like, you know, it was like a different time. So then I was lost. I was in this period of like, well, what am I doing? Like, I've spent like six months of my life, like, and so much money on this record. And now I'm kind of back to square one. And I can't even remember how me and Alex AG started kind of going to the studio together. But we just sort of got on this train together where we were like, super inspired to work. We're in ways, even though I think most people don't think it was so similar. We're like, both only children, both like addicted to working. So we kind of like fueled this. like thing between each other and we were also at the time both in kind of relationships that would like not going great so I think we wanted to like escape to making music. Didn't you write a whole album in a day at one point? Yeah we did we would always set ourselves these like funny challenges like like text him at 9am and be like hey should we just like make an album in a day and he'd be like yeah sure and then do you think that'd be more stressful for him or for you? Neither like honestly we both really like love it and we were also like partying a lot I mean he doesn't really party that much like he goes to party please doesn't really like party like you know whatever anyways sorry you know I was partying and he was at parties maybe and we you know he was DJing a lot and we were just like in it with each other and I think you know he would play like a track at a party And I'd be like, I'd record it on my phone. I'd be like, what is this track that you played? Like, I wanna write over it. And so, and that we would just kind of like out. And we were like in each other's pockets. We would like go to New York for a week cause I had a show and he was gonna DJ and then we'd make tracks there. And then we, it was so fun. And actually we were talking about this time with Addison Rae recently. Cause she was kind of asking about specifically pop too and like the energy and how we created that vibe. And we both didn't really know at the time we were not consciously thinking about anything. We were just kind of like running into a wall and being like, let's make music all the time. Let's like live and breathe it. It's our life, like with our friends, we're at parties. We're like going to a party. Then we're gonna go to the studio at 6 a.m. We're gonna like make this track. He had a studio actually in like Seven Sisters that was also in a club for a while. So that was cool. You know, it felt very old school actually. Like the kind of like old school way of like making a record with one person and being so locked in. And it was just like a whirlwind. And I think we kind of like rescued each other. I'm not quite sure from what, but from something. We were really like in it together. And yeah, now we just have this like offhand. We can just, it's so fluid between us, the way that we work, you know? There's no ego or pressure. It's amazing. Okay, cool. I just did speak a lot. I'm sorry. I mean, those two mix tapes, I'm so sure that I speak for people in this room. Like I think they really meant a lot to people as well. They just appeared, I don't know. They've sort of filled a gap that you might not even have known was there for that type of really, really weird, adventurous pop music, I guess. Thank you. I think what we've maybe seen then with the- last few projects so you've got mixtapes going into the Charlie album which is maybe more you know it has more slightly more well-rounded pop shape to it I guess you could say. The Lockdown album which again you made in six weeks, how I'm feeling now which goes back I think towards some quite you know into some quite wild experimental places and then Crash which I mean to me seemed like almost a sort of you know mischievous like attempt to go completely disgustingly pop like yeah so this is there's this ongoing like almost like a pendulum swing it seems like a sort of tension between this you know this desire to make really sonically challenging music and have a disgustingly massive audience so yeah how are you continuing to like navigate that tension where was yeah Yeah, I mean, I'm super aware of that and so all the people I work with I think I'm addicted to the pendulum I feel like Good artists are because you kind of have to burn down what you did and reject it to then go on to Be the complete polar opposite of that I I've always struggled with like my position as a person and an artist I think as I get older there are moments where I feel a lot more confident within what that position is, but I totally Can backtrack and be back to square one where I'm Sort of like why aren't I the hugest artists in the world and everybody knows room room and then I'll be like well Actually, no, I'm kind of cool with being this like Girl, you know and then I'm like no fuck that girl. I want to be like XYZ or you know, whatever like I'm getting better with it. But I also think it's really important to say that like my music is like I'm not like a political artist right my music and my artistry is about the concept of being an artist and the Concept of pop music and pop music in pop culture And so for me the pendulum has to swing to give me that dialogue, you know, because It's about that in a turmoil like across all records. It's always about the inner turmoil Even if I'm singing about romance or I don't know like going to the shops or whatever the lens is through This look at the industry like that's always where I'm coming from, you know so so my work needs to have this swing to allow me to kind of Overlord on that particular moment whether it's the sellout crash moment or whether it's doing something super intricate and in more bedroom feeling like how I'm feeling now, I have to dive and take big swings between the two to keep my narrative of what is it to be a pop star going. Yeah, that's really interesting. What does that feel like though, when you're doing, you're in this mode of like, when you said it then like, this is the sellout album, like, how do you, is there a limit to that? Like, how sellout do you go for that experience, you know? I mean, I did like every brand deal that came my way during Crash. It was great. And I like justified it by being like, well, it's a sellout album, it's fine, you know? So that was cool, but yeah, I mean, it's also, it's like, it has to run deeper than this sort of outfit that you put on, you know? It's, when I'm in that, when I'm in, I'm doing Crash the sellout album, I'm fucking in it. I'm not like. Towing I'm like that girl. I'm going there. I I mean because what is art without conviction? It's crap, you know, so I feel like you have to be Convicted for it to be good and that's kind of what I feel about anything And that's why I think some artists are great and some artists aren't that good to be honest Is it the case that? like I feel like And those artists are Well, is it the case that there aren't many artists in you know in front of you ahead of you previously Something who you can look to and say yes, that's the kind of career that I want I mean, I mean I've never really wanted anyone's career. I've got I've I've been asked that question a lot and It's I would love to take pieces from you know Robin's career from Bjork's career But like not I don't it's not the same like I don't literally want the things exactly the things, you know so because my career Isn't moldable like that and I suppose that's why I do like really identify with Robin like Her journey in ways is similar to mine and we really bond over that, you know but yeah, it's I I Kind of forgot the question, but I think I In your interview with the face recently No, no, no, no this it's totally fine. It's so fine You yeah, you mentioned that you you have actually had a total dry phase creatively. So that's yeah Oh, I thought that the whole thing, you know, the tap was just always on. No, no, no, no How how rare is that and what do you do to get out that you know? What are your sort of do you have creative strategies that you would share with other people, you know, I'm really sorry to say I don't have one creative strategy. I really, so I remember specifically that time. I think it was like I'd finished Crash and I think I'd mixed it and mastered it and it was kind of just sitting there. And then I had the kind of normal dry phase of like the kind of the rest and recuperation phase, the three months after you finished the record where you're just like, okay, I'm gonna chill and then I began to notice like, oh, it's been now, it's been four months and now it's been five months and I hadn't really got this like spark. I hadn't really got this like thing back yet. And the album Crash hadn't come out. So I was kind of in this sort of like limbo phase where I was like getting ready to go, you know? And I mean, my managers are here and they're my best friends who I've been with since we've known each other since we were 11 like I have a breakdown like a breakdown when I and I'm like guys like I'm never I can't do music anymore I'm not a musician like I want to quit like la la la la and I really just have to go there like I have to just like almost like bleed dry kind of and I think honestly this is a really annoying answer because I know that not everybody has this privilege but I for me it's about like waiting it out like I have to wait and I did one session with Fred again the you know Fred again I did a session with him we know you're familiar anyways so he was like oh I when I get when I have a like dry creative phase I work through it like I have to like work I work I work I work and he was even talking about in the studio if he you know can't come up with an idea and then he tries another idea and then he still can't come up with an idea he pushes through and through and through and through until he gets an idea and that was like amazing to me because I cannot do that I'm like if I don't have an idea I'm gone like I'm leaving I'm going home like I can't I can't I think it's so different for different people like I cannot push myself because I get frustrated and when I'm frustrated I'm not gonna do anything good you know I'm gonna like just be so like you know so I have to wait I have to breathe and wait was there then some sort of moment or spark where brat started to form in your mind yeah I think there was I think AG and I started doing like a couple of sessions you know just sort of for fun playing around with things and you know I was sort of talking about you know just like club club I was like club vibes like we got a that it feels right like you know the pendulum of crash had swung I was like fuck this pop shit like you know I don't want to do this like cuz you know I'd gone so deep on crash I'd been like I want pitch records I want an A&R I'd never like had an A&R I was like give me an A&R like they do that let's let's get one and I was like get me pitch records and you know it was really cool and it was fun to like play that character of this I mean to be honest I don't really even actually think that this character totally exists I kind of think this character does exist I just think people like to like hide it now because authenticity is such a tool but I you know I don't really think people actually are like fully doing that anymore this like give me songs they have to like be in the studio at least and they'll be like yeah I like this song and I'm gonna like write the you know bridge or whatever but like I was just like I don't even want to be there get me songs and so then afterwards I don't know why I'm doing this weird voice I don't do that but then after that whole record I think I had to go so like the other way you know when people are like writing lyrics for you especially I think in LA and I think generally like sometimes there is like a very like songwritery feel to songs you know when things are like super conceptual like and the tag there's like this kooky tag and you're like no one's saying that shit what like I don't I'd been in that world and I wanted to come so far back and that to me felt like well I have to write lyrics that I would say in a sentence in a text to a friend and nobody else is gonna do that for me apart from me so this is not really co-writers it's just like me and Alex going in and it just felt like the language that we spoke best together was super electronic like really getting in our like bleep bloop vibe and just like going there you know so I think that's how we got there I feel like we might only have a couple of my questions before we have some other questions but I can't remember where I'll answer them so quickly I'm sorry is that correct am I basically am I on track okay good okay let's just throw away about five of these um no no sorry okay so actually I just want to talk about fans because you know fandoms is like a huge thing now you have like Swifties and the BTS army who are like influencing elections and things yeah right It's quite a big deal and you've been a pop artist throughout this period where fandoms have become really decisive in a pop artist's career, I think. Yeah, what's that like for you? Do your fans fit into your thinking when you're preparing to release an album or is that? No, I can't do that to myself really. No, because then I'm not making what I want to make and I'm good because I'm good, I'm at my best when I just make what I want to fucking make, not when I'm like, oh, if I do this song, does it influence the numbers for this thing, then we'll go on to be good so I have a number lift before that, like fuck that shit. Everyone thinks about it and I know it's like an important part and there's a strategy to it, but it's not conducive to... me making my best music, sometimes it's a great little stepping block to allow me to go on to make great music, but I can't listen to outside noise, whether it be from fans, whether it be from sort of like strategy, I just can't, otherwise it dilutes like the purity of the art, which I know sounds like such an annoying sentence, but it's true, it becomes less authentic, and I'm less in it, you know, but I love the fans. So you entered the industry as a teenager, and I guess you were in a certain position that maybe we would particularly now perceive to be like quite vulnerable, you know, being sort of young and driven, and knowing that those are exactly the qualities that are kind of sort of exploitable in a sense, and also being like a young woman in an industry that we increasingly know is sort of riddled with abusive men being protected by the industry. I guess my big question is, is the music industry in any way a better place for a woman to be working than when you started? Well, good question. I don't know is the answer, because I think some areas are better, and some areas are worse, and I also think like I don't like to sort of talk about it in terms of women, although I understand the importance of that, it's just, I just don't think of it like that. I think of it as, well, I've been in a very, look, I've been in a really, really lucky situation, where I will say the majority of the men that I have come across have been really respectful, brilliant and lovely to work with. Sometimes a little annoying, but that's fine, you know? Like I, and I know that that is not the case for every woman and that is honestly a fucking tragedy, but I can't speak from that because I haven't fully experienced that. I've had really patronizing men in the studio before and patronizing annoying people who are male at the label. I'm sorry, I said it, I don't know if you're here. I'm sorry. But that level of ego and oh, she doesn't really know. I can deal with that, that doesn't keep me up at night because I know the game, I know the fucking game. And I know how to play the game. I know how to be like, yeah, no, you're so right. Oh my God, great idea, I love that idea. It's so good, didn't he love his idea? Oh my God, it's so good. And then I'm like, Twiggy, we're not doing that idea. It's fucking shit, do you know what I mean? Like, I know the game, shout out, shout out Twiggy, yeah, hi. But it's like, I know the game. And so that is, I can handle that. And so for me, I'm like, how's the industry changing for artists? Cause that's my experience of it. Like when I signed my deal, when I was 15, I signed a five album deal that wasn't very sexy, to be honest. But it was also the time, you know, like that was the fucking deal that was on the table. And I didn't feel taken advantage of. I didn't feel like I had my arm twisted or manipulated. I didn't feel that someone was saying like, oh, this girl and her parents don't know what the fuck's up. We're gonna fuck them. Like that was just a record deal in whatever year it was I signed. Like that was just it. And I think now there is so much more information and willingness to talk about deal structure and artist rights and royalties and all of these things that I didn't know a single thing about nor fucking cared to know about when I was 15, to be honest. I was just like, I signed a record deal, like sick, you know. I wasn't thinking about like, I'm making no money from it. Sick. Like I was just, you know, whatever. But like, I think now it's really cool and great that there are, There are these constant dialogues around that, so I think in ways that element has changed, but I know that's not specifically about women, so sorry I didn't go there. That's all well and good. I think we have time for an audience. I was so slow, I was so slow with the answer. I'm so sorry, you had two more and you had to cut all of them. I'm gonna say it really needs to be a question, you know it, not a comment, let's go, yeah. Hi, you're really cool. Thanks, comments. I'm getting to it, anyway, right, favorite feature on BRAT? There are no features. There's no features. Not one, not one. Somebody wanna take my go? Directly. Hi Charlie. Hello. I'm happy on Dutch day. I'm so excited. So question, I think you talked a little bit about how pop culture at the minute is existing within culture has affected how you've written your music and so you know the experience of being a person in this culture and I wondered how as micro trends and the trend cycle accelerates in in every field like fashion music Do you think that that changes the way that the pressures are placed on you as an artist to change these identities and little characters that you Create for each album you talked about the pendulum. So yeah, I'm wondering if it's getting faster the way that I'm talking That's a really interesting question I mean, I never feel pressure to to like suddenly I never feel pressure to You know comment on culture because it's happening I just like to comment on the elements of culture that I want to comment on I don't feel I never I'm like, oh this trend is happening I must speak on it like because sometimes I'm wouldn't know anything about it or whatever One thing I do think is cool about, you know Monoculture's death is now everybody can be a star which is really fun whether you're like I don't know is some like Edgy girl on tick tock like doing really interesting makeup or whether you're really quite like niche like small Artist this like level of like micro trend and kind of like mini Influencer, I don't know the correct term of that or whatever but that is so interesting because like some like kid who's like doing something quite nuanced can actually have this like die-hard like following that is So obsessed with them and I find that a really positive and interesting thing about What you're talking about the the way that culture is kind of like cannibalizing itself I think that's really interesting and I think yeah I think it's cool because I think everyone everyone should be a star in their own world, you know Yeah, that that is a nice note to end on actually Thank you so much 
